# ObscruinKnotting
My collaborators are interested in simulating the configuration of Obscurin's Ig domain and linker domain to determine if a random configuration would be "stretched" or "knotted" in on itself.

Using generated angles from a molecule simulation between the Ig domain and the linker domain, and then the linker domain and the next Ig domain, I used R to determine the appropriate distribution of the angles between these different domains for the purposes of building a Monte Carlo simulation in MATLAB. I discovered that the Ig to linker domain followed a normal distribution, whereas the linker to Ig domain followed a bimodal distribution. Using R to determine the average and standard deviation of these different distributions, I then built a MATLAB simulation code in 2D that would randomly select a starting point for the first Ig domain, select a random orientation angle, and knowing that the length of the Ig domain was between 32-34 Angstroms, consider the Ig domain to behave like a 2D vector and determine the termination location of the Ig domain. Then, the linker domain was assumed to start at the end of the Ig domain with an angle randomly generated from the normal distribution data. The linker domain is 12.8 Angstroms, so given the starting location in the Cartesian coordinate system, a randomly generated angle, I can calculate the end of the linker domain as a vector. I repeated this process for 18 nodes- an Ig domain and a linker domain make one node- then ran full Monte Carlo simulations 1,000,000 times. To determine if the portion of Obscurin was stretched out, I plotted the range of stretch in the x and y directions by calculating the difference in maximum x/y position from the minimum x/y positions for each simulation. These ranges were then plotted on histograms which demonstrate that it is highly unlikely that Obscurin is stretched. 

Next, in 2D, I "counted" how many times the simulated obscurin would cross over itself and used the number of cross overs as a pseudo description for "knotting."

The next iteration was to build the simulation in three dimensions. I used the same generated angles between Ig domain and linker domains except added in a degree of twist, tau, that was randomly generated between -pi and pi to indicate the elevation or twist in the z-axis between each Ig domain and linker domain. For 1,000,000 Monte Carlo simulations, the ranges in x, y and z are extremely small, whereas if Obscurin were complete stretched out we would expect a length of 824.4 Angstroms in one cartesian direction and 0 Angstroms in the other two cartesian directions.
